# "Biased or Not" — Visualizing Google's Responses to Content Removal Requests

Authors/Developers: Judy Ahn, Olivia Escousse, Finley Li, Noah Shen, and Ploenta Voraprukpisut

## Project Summary

From political propaganda, bots and troll farms, to hate speech and religious extremism, the decision of what should and
should not be displayed on the internet falls in the hands of major tech corporations. Since 2011, Google has received
over 290,000 removal requests from the governments of over 150 different countries. Governments contact Google with
content removal requests for a number of reasons: content that violates a local law, court orders, copyright
infringement, etc. Google proceeds to evaluate these requests and determine if they should be approved according to a
list of policies specified on Google’s website. This cloaked procedure leaves online users to question: Should internet
censorship be left in the hands of major tech corporations like Google? And if so, what biases are involved in the
process?

In an attempt to better understand the biases involved, we explored two datasets containing content removal requests
made by various countries to Google; the data spans from June 30th, 2019, to the end of 2021. Our visualization
showcases the countries and their respective removal request data, revealing country-specific trends such as popular
reasons and platforms for removal requests. The visualization also illustrates broader regional, specifically
continental, patterns. We effectively communicate the sheer magnitude of requests made in Europe and Asia in comparison
to the other continents, as well as Google’s tendency to approve more requests from certain continents.

The main audience for our visualization are Google users or anyone who is interested in online censorship. Our aim is to
bring awareness to any censorship biases Google has towards different countries and regions, and thus, our visualization
allows users to self-explore and draw their own conclusions to the big question: Is Google biased towards certain
countries and regions?

## Dataset

The datasets used contain content removal requests made by various countries to Google from June 30th, 2019, to the end
of 2021. We have two datasets — the first gives us statistics on the content removed while the second describes the
categorical details on the request type. The first dataset includes variables such as the country requesting the
removal, the number of requests, items requested to be removed, percentage of approval removals (removed legally and
removed by policy), and percentage of items where no action was taken. The second dataset specifics the country
requesting the removal, the Google platform that the related content is hosted on as well as the reason for the removal
request (ie. defamation, fraud, national security, etc). Unfortunately, the two datasets do not match up — therefore, we
were not able to cross-reference the two datasets together.

## Goals for Visualization

The aim of our visualization is to bring awareness to any positive or negative biases Google has towards different
countries and regions, so our visualization encourages self-exploration so that users may draw their own conclusions. In
addition to this, we also want to showcase the most popular reason and platform for removal for each country. With that,
we outline the 4 main objectives for our visualization. 

1. To visualize the differences in the number of requests between different countries and continental regions.
2. To showcase the differences between the percentage of accepted requests between different countries and continental regions.
3. To display the most common reason for removal for each country.
4. To display the most common platform for removal for each country. 

## Demo 
Check out our visualization at the following link: https://finleylee2507.github.io/Final-Jupiter-Project/ 


